---
title: Gamelan Ensemble
permalink: /cca/performing-arts/gamelan-ensemble/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Performing Arts
---
<p>Evergreen Secondary School introduced Gamelan Ensemble in 2004. It is called Evergreen Secondary School Sri Cemara Gamelan Ensemble. [‘ Sri Cemara’ pronounced as ‘ sri chem – moro’]</p>
<p><strong>What is Gamelan?</strong><br>Gamelan is derived from the word ‘Gamel’ which means to hit/ strike. Thus, Gamelan music is about percussion music; most instruments are played with the use of the mallets which look like wooden hammers.</p>
<p>Unlike many musical traditions, however, Gamelan strictly focuses on group music; you will never find a solo performance or part in any gamelan composition! This is because Gamelan Music is both simultaneous and polyphonic in nature. Simply put, it builds its music in layers. Every musician needs to depend on one another in order to have a successful performance, hence teamwork is greatly emphasized. Our Gamelan Ensemble prides itself on an almost telepathic relationship between its members!</p>
<p>Gamelan, in general, builds its music around the lives of people. It is a way of life for people in Indonesia, likened to that of the electric guitar and drums in the urban context. There are pieces that welcome people, pieces that portray tension, pieces that are meant for intermission—one could even go so far as to say there are pieces for almost every situation! This reminds students of the many colours of life. While some may be dull, others are as bright as they can be. We must embrace life as true Singaporeans: to know that behind every dull colour lies the hope of bright colours!</p>
<p>Our students teaching and learning from our friends at Anglican High School (AHS).<br>Newly-forged friendships between EVG and AHS students</p>
<p><strong>Gamelan Ensemble in the latest Singapore Youth Festival (Arts Presentation) 2017</strong></p>
<p>Last year, the Gamelan Ensemble had the privilege of taking part in the Bi-Annual Singapore Youth Festival (Arts Presentation). From the extra hours spent preparing the pieces to the unveiling of the new costumes and the final release of the results, it was a very enriching experience for students and teachers alike.</p>
<p>This time, we chose to do an original composition called P.I.E (Play It Easy). Contrary to what the name suggests, this piece is nothing short of a complex but exhilarating performance. A flurry of strokes and interlocking rhythms that required intense precision and gravitas, P.I.E was crafted specially to showcase the students’ talents as well as their ability to communicate with one another through music.</p>