---
title: Secondary 1 Registration (Academic Year 2024)
permalink: /announcements/announcements/permalink/
date: 2023-12-19
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h3>Welcome to Secondary One Students (Academic Year 2024)</h3><p>It is our pleasure to welcome all newly-posted Secondary 1 students (AY2024) to Evergreen Secondary School. Here is some important information for students’ registration on 21 December 2023.</p><p>Students are&nbsp;<strong>not required</strong>&nbsp;to physically report to their school for Secondary 1 registration after receiving their posting results.</p><p>Any information regarding Secondary 1 registration 2024 will be disseminated via Parents Gateway (PG) and our school website.</p><p></p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>Secondary 1 Online Registration on 21 December 2023</strong></p></li><li><p><strong>Purchase of Textbooks and School Uniforms</strong></p></li><li><p><strong>Secondary 1 Letter to Parents / Guardians</strong></p></li><li><p><strong>Reporting to School on 2 January 2024</strong></p></li><li><p><strong>Secondary 1 (AY2024) Appeal for Admission to Evergreen Secondary School</strong></p></li><li><p><strong>Frequently Asked Questions and Other Queries</strong></p></li></ol><p></p><h4><strong>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Secondary 1 Online Registration on 21 December 2023</strong></h4><p><u>Online Briefing for all Secondary 1 Students and Parents</u></p><p></p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We will be having a <u>Zoom session to brief all Secondary 1 students and parents on 21 December 2023 at 8.30 am</u>. The Zoom link details can be obtained through Parents Gateway.</p><p></p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Please contact our General Office at 63656392 between 8.00 am to 4.00 pm on weekdays (except public holidays) if you have any queries regarding accessing the Zoom session.</p><p></p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; When joining the Zoom session, please use the Official name (as per NRIC) of your child being admitted to our school, e.g., “John Tan Lee Beng”. The Zoom session will open at 8.15 am. You will be placed in the virtual waiting room, for admission into the session at 8.30 am.</p><p></p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We would appreciate it if one Zoom account per child and your child’s Official Name are used for the signing in.</p><h4><strong>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Purchase of Textbooks and School Uniforms</strong></h4><p></p><p><strong>2.1&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <u>For Students Eligible for More Demanding Subjects</u></strong></p><p></p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students are to report to the School Hall on <strong>21 December 2023 (10.30 am to 12.30 pm) </strong>to collect their FSBB option form.</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students must submit the FSBB option form after he/she has made the choices for eligible subjects at the more demanding level (e.g., he/she is admitted to the Posting Group 2, but eligible for, and intend to take Science and Mathematics at a more demanding level).&nbsp;</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; After submission of FSBB option form, parents and students may proceed to:</p><p>o&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Purchase school uniforms and PE shorts<strong> </strong>at the Emergency Preparedness (EP) Corner.</p><p>o&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Purchase textbooks from the school bookshop in the canteen.&nbsp;</p><p></p><p><u>PE T-shirt</u></p><p>The colour of the PE T-shirt will depend on the class/house that students are assigned. As the class/house allocation will only be assigned after <strong><u>28 December 2023</u></strong> (after FSBB option collation), time will be given for Secondary 1 students to purchase the PE T-shirt in school on the first day of school.</p><p></p><p><strong>2.2&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <u>All other students</u></strong></p><p></p><p><strong>a. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <u>Booking of slots for purchase of textbooks &amp; uniforms</u></strong></p><p>You are required to book an appointment slot via the following link before proceeding to school.</p><p><strong><a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://calendly.com/evergreensecondaryschool/sec-1-evg-purchase-of-textbook-uniforms</a></strong></p><p>Do note the following:&nbsp;</p><p>(i)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Please do not turn up in school without an appointment.</p><p>(ii)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Students can only be accompanied by one parent/guardian.</p><p>(iii)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; You will be required to show your email with the details of the booking, to the school Security Guards before entry.</p><p></p><p><strong>b.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <u>Sales location in school</u></strong></p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Textbooks will be sold at the School Bookshop (Canteen).</p><p>●&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; School Uniforms / PE attire will be sold at the Emergency Preparedness (EP) &nbsp;Corner.</p><p></p><p><strong>c. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <u>Operating days and hours</u></strong></p><p>Below are the operating hours for the sale of textbooks, stationery and school uniform:</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Date</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Operating Hours</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>21 December 2023</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>10.00 am – 3.00 pm</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>22 December 2023</p></td><td rowspan="4" colspan="1"><p></p><p></p><p>9.00 am – 3.00 pm</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>26 December 2023</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>27 December 2023</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>28 December 2023</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><h4><strong>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Secondary One Letter to Parents / Guardians</strong></h4><p>&nbsp;Please refer to the <strong>2024</strong> <strong>Term 1 Letter to Secondary One Parents</strong> attached in our Parents Gateway message, for important information about the school and the key events in the school calendar for Term 1 2024.</p><p></p><h4><strong>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Reporting to School on 2 January 2024</strong></h4><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong>If you are unable to report to Evergreen Secondary on 2 January 2024 due to valid reasons, please email us at <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">evergreen_ss@schools.gov.sg</a> with your name and contact number to confirm that you are still taking up the place, and we will be able to reserve the place for you.</p><p></p><h4><strong>5. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Secondary 1 (AY2024) Appeal for Admission to Evergreen Secondary School</strong></h4><p>For consideration to be placed on the waiting list for admission to Evergreen Secondary School, please submit your application form<a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank"> https://go.gov.sg/sec1appeal-evgss</a></p><p>Students seeking admission <strong>must</strong> meet the cut-off point of the school.</p><p>Deadline for appeal for S1 (AY2024) is 26 Dec 2023, 12 pm.</p><p></p><h4><strong>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Frequently Asked Questions and Other Queries</strong></h4><p><strong><u>Sec 1 Registration</u></strong></p><p><strong>(a)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What happens if I do not have Parents Gateway?</strong></p><p>&nbsp;Information will be placed on the school website. If you do have any queries, you can contact the General Office at 63656392.</p><p></p><p><strong>(b)</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>What is the duration of the Zoom Session on 21 December 2023?</strong></p><p>The duration of the Zoom session is around 30 mins. If you do have any concerns attending the Zoom session, you can contact the General Office at 63656392.</p><p></p><p><strong><u>Subject-Based Banding</u></strong></p><p><strong>(c)&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Can I appeal for my child to take subjects at a more demanding level?</strong></p><p>&nbsp;There is no appeal as the offer is first made based on the PSLE Achievement Level. However, if a student did well for the subject and meets the eligible criteria (with reference to the Weighted Assessment and Semestral Assessment results respectively) at the end of Secondary 1 Semester 1 or 2, he / she may be given the offer to take up the subject(s) at more demanding level.</p><p><strong><u>Higher Mother Tongue Language</u></strong></p><p><strong>(d) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Can I appeal for my child to take Higher Mother Tongue Language (HMTL)?</strong></p><p>Eligibility for HMTL is based on MOE's letter of offer for the Secondary 1 students. Subsequently, our school may offer other students to take up HMTL based on his/her interest, aptitude and overall school-based performance.</p><p><strong>(e) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What are the merits of taking HMTL?</strong></p><p>&nbsp;HMTL offers students the opportunities to learn Chinese or Malay at a more advanced level. It will develop students with the ability, aptitude and interest in MTL to achieve higher levels of language proficiency and cultural knowledge.</p><p><strong><u>Tamil Lessons</u></strong></p><p><strong>(f)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; My child would like to take Tamil lessons. What are the arrangements for his / her Tamil lessons?</strong></p><p>Evergreen Secondary School does not offer Tamil Language as a subject. The dedicated Tamil Language Centre for EVG is Sembawang Secondary School. We will enrol our students to Marsiling and Sembawang Secondary School Tamil Classes based on their Tamil Lang subject bands. Students taking Tamil language will be allowed to leave earlier and proceed to the Tamil Centre on the days of their lessons. Currently, Tamil lessons are held once a week during the school term.</p><p>&nbsp;<strong><u>Third Language</u></strong></p><p><strong>(g)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; My child would like to take a Third Language. Is it possible?</strong></p><p>Third Language offers are given by MOE based on the students' PSLE results. Any appeal should be made directly to the MOE Language Centres.</p><p><strong><u>&nbsp;Support for the Child</u></strong></p><p><strong>(h) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; My child has been having counselling in Primary School and would like to continue with counselling. How can I discuss the arrangements with the school?</strong></p><p>Parents may contact the Form Teachers to request for counselling support, providing current areas of concerns, and the school counsellor will assess to schedule a counselling session with the child.</p><p></p><p><strong>(i) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; My child has special needs. How do I inform the school about it?</strong></p><p>Parents may email Mrs Julia Raj (HOD CCE) at <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">julia_chia_jing_yi@schools.gov.sg</a> .</p><p></p><p><strong>(j) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; My child has health issues. How do I inform the school about it?</strong></p><p>Parents may email Mr. James Ng (HOD PE / CCA) at <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">james_ng_aik_gian@schools.gov.sg</a></p><p><strong><u>Parents Support Group (PSG)</u></strong></p><p><strong>(k)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; How do I join the PSG?</strong></p><p>You can register using the online form: <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://go.gov.sg/joinevgpsg</a></p><p><strong>(l) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; How often does the PSG meet up?</strong></p><p>The PSG meetings are held on a termly basis.</p><p></p><p><strong>(m) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; How does joining the PSG enable parents to better support their children in secondary school?</strong></p><p>You can attend PSG meetings where school staff will share more about department programmes for parents to better understand the school and where support are given to students. The support network of parents may also share parenting tips and support each other on the parenting journey. There will also be invitation to workshops on parenting and support for students, and invitation to participate in school activities with students and teachers online or in school.</p><p><strong><u>Other Queries</u></strong></p><p>For all other enquiries please call the General Office at 63656392 between 8.00 am to 4.00 pm on weekdays (except public holidays).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p></p>